Information and services
Business
Regulations
Insolvency and bankruptcy
Law on Bankruptcy
The law on bankruptcy provides a legal framework to help distressed companies to avoid bankruptcy and liquidation through different mechanisms.
The law on bankruptcy provides a legal framework to help distressed companies to avoid bankruptcy and liquidation through different mechanisms.
Business bankruptcy in the UAE is governed by Federal Decree-Law No. (51) of 2023 Promulgating the Financial and Bankruptcy Law. The law provides a legal framework to help distressed companies in the UAE to avoid bankruptcy and liquidation through different mechanisms which include:
Business bankruptcy in the UAE is governed by
Federal Decree-Law No. (51) of 2023 Promulgating the Financial and Bankruptcy Law
consensual out-of-court financial restructuring
composition procedures
financial restructuring
the potential to secure new loans under terms set by the law
conversion to declaration of bankruptcy and liquidation of the debtor’s assets.


The law does not apply to natural individuals. It applies to:
The law does not apply to natural individuals. It applies to:
companies governed by the Commercial Companies Decree Law

companies and establishments in the free zones that are subject to the provisions of Federal Law No. 8 of 2004 on Financial Free Zones and which are not governed by particular provisions regulating protective composition procedures, financial restructuring and/or bankruptcy
any individual who is a trader as defined in the Commercial Transactions Law (Available in Arabic only).
Commercial Transactions Law
licensed civil companies carrying out professional activities.


The law aims to increase business stability in the UAE and investors’ confidence in the UAE market.
The law aims to increase business stability in the UAE and investors’ confidence in the UAE market.
Was this information helpful?
Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience.










Thank you for submitting your feedback.