Information and services
Business
Regulations
Protection of the rights of businesses in Dubai
The Commercial Compliance Manual provides information in the areas of protection of IP rights, protection of commercial agencies, practising commercial activities and conducting raffles and offering prizes.
The Commercial Compliance Manual (PDF, 29.3 MB), launched by Commercial Compliance and Commercial Protection Sector (CCCP) of the Department of Economy & Tourism, Dubai, contains guidance on conducting business in Dubai in compliance with the laws with an aim to protect them from causing violations that may expose them to financial fines or complaints from consumers or merchants.
The Commercial Compliance Manual (PDF, 29.3 MB), launched by Commercial Compliance and Commercial Protection Sector (CCCP) of the Department of Economy & Tourism, Dubai, contains guidance on conducting business in Dubai in compliance with the laws with an aim to protect them from causing violations that may expose them to financial fines or complaints from consumers or merchants.
Commercial Compliance Manua
Commercial Compliance and Commercial Protection Sector
The manual seeks to be a reference for traders on:
laws, regulations, and requirements enforced in Dubai
creating a premium business environment for merchants and consumers

reducing the number of violating commercial establishments.


The manual provides information in the areas of:
protection of IP rights
protection of commercial agencies
business protection
practising commercial activities
providing offers and sales
conducting raffles and offering prizes.
The manual further provides detailed information on the steps to file a complaint by one business against another violating business. Traders can file complaints against any commercial establishment in Dubai’s mainland by providing the necessary evidence and documents through the Consumerrights.ae website or through the Dubai Consumer app, available on App Store and Google Play.
The manual further provides detailed information on the steps to file a complaint by one business against another violating business. Traders can file complaints against any commercial establishment in Dubai’s mainland by providing the necessary evidence and documents through the Consumerrights.ae website or through the Dubai Consumer app, available on App Store and Google Play.
the Consumerrights.ae website
App Store
Google Play

For the complaint to be accepted, the violator must be licensed by the Department of Economy & Tourism, Dubai, and the applicant must provide supporting documents with his complaint submission. The Department also accepts business complaints it receives from outside the UAE.
and the applicant must provide supporting documents with his complaint submission.


The Business Protection Department at the Department of Economy & Tourism, Dubai, handles business complaints raised against other businesses (B2B) and tries to resolve the dispute amicably. It accepts only commercial types of disputes which include:
The Business Protection Department at the Department of Economy & Tourism, Dubai, handles business complaints raised against other businesses (B2B) and tries to resolve the dispute amicably. It accepts only commercial types of disputes which include:
complaints against additional fees on a service or a product
non-compliance of a store’s policy with the law
non-compliance with the business’s after-sale services, activity, price list, terms of the contact and warranty.


The Department does not accept complaints in tourism, real estate, insurance and banks or cases related to cheques and fraud.
The Department does not accept complaints in tourism, real estate, insurance and banks or cases related to cheques and fraud.


Read more about the Business Complaint (B2B) service and how to protect your business (PDF, 327 KB).
Read more about the Business Complaint (B2B) service and how to protect your business (PDF, 327 KB).
the Business Complaint (B2B) service and how to protect your business
Was this information helpful?
Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience.










Thank you for submitting your feedback.