Information and services
Business
Important digital services
Register your website using .ae, the top level domain name
(.ae) is the official top level domain name for the UAE and امارات).) i. e. (dotEmarat) is the Arabic Internationalized Domain Name (IDN) for the UAE. Contact accredited registrars to register the website for your business.
(.ae) is the official top level domain name for the UAE and امارات).) i. e. (dotEmarat) is the Arabic Internationalized Domain Name (IDN) for the UAE. Contact accredited registrars to register the website for your business.
امارات)
(.ae) is the official top level domain name for the UAE and امارات).( i. e. (dotEmarat) is the Arabic Internationalized Domain Name (IDN) for the UAE.
(.ae)

is the official top level domain name for the UAE and
امارات)
.
(
i. e. (dotEmarat) is the Arabic Internationalized Domain Name (IDN) for the UAE.
Internationalized Domain Name


If an internet address has .ae at the end of it, then it is registered in the UAE and a part of the .ae domain space.
If an internet address has .ae at the end of it, then it is registered in the UAE and a part of the .ae domain space.


Domain Administration (.aeDA) of Telecommunications and Digital Government Regulatory Authority is the department responsible for regulating and operating the (.ae) and (.امارات) country code namespace. It also licenses and accredits companies (registrars) which render .ae domain services for individuals and businesses.
Domain Administration (.aeDA) of Telecommunications and Digital Government Regulatory Authority is the department responsible for regulating and operating the (.ae) and (
Domain Administration (.aeDA
.امارات
) country code namespace. It also licenses and accredits companies (registrars) which render .ae domain services for individuals and businesses.


Contact the accredited registrars listed on the website of (.aeDA) to register ).ae( and امارات).(  domain names for your website.
Contact the accredited registrars listed on the website of (.aeDA) to register
Contact the accredited registrars
)
.ae
(
and
امارات)
.
(
domain names for your website.


TDRA adopted ChatGPT to recommend .ae website domain names to owners of SMEs. Under the initiative, ‘Name Ideas’, entrepreneurs can submit a description of the commercial activity for which they want to find a local domain name. Then, ChatGPT analyses the information provided and provides a list of proposed domain names based on the AI algorithms. Names are provided as per availability and suitability. They are proposed in Arabic and English.
‘Name Ideas’

Entrepreneurs can register the domain name of their choice immediately by choosing an accredited domain registrar from the displayed list, and complete the transaction in a few minutes.
register the domain name

Read more:
Read more:
All policies related to (.ae) domain, types, eligibility, licensing and the process of registration
All policies related to (.ae) domain
FAQs about domain names.
FAQs about domain names


The domain name of Abu Dhabi
The domain name of Abu Dhabi
The domain name of Abu Dhabi
(.abudhabi) is the official top level domain name for the emirate of Abu Dhabi. Etisalat is the accredited registrar of .abudhabi ( ابوظبي.) domain.
(.abudhabi) is the official top level domain name for the emirate of Abu Dhabi. Etisalat is the accredited registrar of .abudhabi (
.abudhabi)
accredited registrar of .abudhabi
ابوظبي
.) domain.
Was this information helpful?
Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience.










Thank you for submitting your feedback.