Information and services
Business
Important digital services
Tawtheef, a bundled service for businesses to hire staff
Services 1 centre in Dubai provides a bundled service titled Tawtheef which will enable companies to complete all services related to hiring and employment in one visit only.
in Dubai provides a bundled service titled Tawtheef which will enable companies to complete all services related to hiring and employment in one visit only.
Hiring a new employee requires the employer to perform a number of services to complete the employment process. Services 1 centre in Dubai has created a bundled service titled Tawtheef which will enable companies to complete all services related to hiring and employment in one visit only. By applying for Tawtheef, a company can get:
Services 1 centre

Eligibility
Eligibility
Tawtheef is offered to companies set up in the UAE, with an employee base of less than 50. It is offered only to companies registered with the Ministry of the Human Resources and Emiratization. This means companies registered in free zones cannot avail this service.
Ministry of the Human Resources and Emiratization

Required documents
Required documents
To apply for Tawtheef, the employer must visit Services 1 centre and submit the following documents:
Services 1 centre


Service completion and delivery
Service completion and delivery
Employers will be able to receive the deliverables within 8-12 days. They can track their application through the MoHRE’s website. The applicant will receive a text message from MoHRE after completion of each process in the bundled service. The documents will be sent to the applicant’s email address that he provided in the application.
the MoHRE’s website

For further information about the service, you can contact Services 1 at (600 565 565) or send an email to info@s1.gov.ae. Read more about Services 1 centre.
info@s1.gov.ae
Services 1 centre
Was this information helpful?
Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience.










Thank you for submitting your feedback.