Information and services
Business
Doing business on the mainland
Running a business on the mainland
This page provides information about the key steps involved in running a business on the mainland from opening a bank account and a WPS account to providing health insurance and visas and more.
Related eServices
Opening a bank account
Wages Protection System (WPS)
Health insurance
Financing your business
Advertising your business
Handling legal issues
Doing business with government bodies
Conducting foreign trade
Complying with health, environment and safety regulations
FAQs
Related eServices
Register in the supplier’s register to do business with UAE Federal Government entities - Ministry of Finance
Register in the supplier’s register to do business with UAE Federal Government entities
Find a list of banks to open a company bank account in the UAE - Central Bank of the UAE
Find a list of banks to open a company bank account in the UAE
Opening a bank account
You can open personal or company bank accounts in any local or foreign bank operating in the UAE. Use of  International Bank Account Number  (IBAN) is mandatory for all transactions and wire transfers from and to the UAE.
International Bank Account Number  (IBAN)
Documents required:
Documents required:
Related links:
Related links:
UAE Central Bank
List of all banks in the UAE
Decretal Federal Law No. 14 of 2018 Regarding the Central Bank & Organization of Financial Institutions and Activities
Wages Protection System (WPS)
Read about the Wages Protection System (WPS).
Wages Protection System (WPS).

Health insurance
Read about health insurance.
health insurance
Financing your business
Depending on your company's activity, banks in the UAE offer several financing options that will stimulate the growth of your business.
For documents and procedures, you can check with the respective bank as these will vary since financing products are backed by different assets.
You can obtain financial products which are in compliance with the Islamic Shari'a banking guidelines.
It is important to remember to settle payments on time to avoid penalties.

Know entities and programmes supporting SMEs in the UAE.
Know entities and programmes supporting SMEs in the UAE.
ntities and programmes supporting SMEs in the UAE.

Useful links:
Useful links:
List of local banks, foreign banks and their branches
Advertising your business
There are several ways to market your products or services in the UAE. You could fulfil the marketing efforts on your own or through an outsourced agency specialised in marketing. In both cases, some forms of advertising require a coordination and approval of government entities concerned. A marketing agency will be helpful since it is aware of the procedures and regulations needed for each type of marketing.
Handling legal issues
There are three primary sources of the UAE law:
UAE law
In addition, there are arbitration centres established by the individual emirates' Chambers of Commerce and Industry, specialised in reconciling commercial disputes before going to the courts.
arbitration centres
It is important to choose the right law firm, as you will need to obtain legal consultation for a variety of business decisions including disputes, contracts, employment and copyright and intellectual property.


Get legal advice and counselling from government entities.

Get legal advice and counselling from government entities
Doing business with government bodies
You need to register with government body you are planning to do business with. The government body will verify your company and then your company will appear in its 'list of approved suppliers'.
This will entitle you to bid for tenders as per the guidelines shared along with the invitation to bid. The government bodies follow a fair and transparent procedure while issuing contracts.
Several government bodies provide online registration. Some government bodies even publish invitation to bid on their websites.
You are advised to check the websites of federal and local government bodies.

Read about government tendering and awarding.
government tendering and awarding


Conducting foreign trade
You can import goods into and exports good from the UAE through the airports, seaports and roadways. You need to comply with the local laws and customs' procedures to import and exports goods legally into and from the UAE.

Related links
UAE Imports and Exports Guide
UAE Trade Information Gateway

Find information and services about customs clearance.
Find information and services about customs clearance.
customs clearance.

Cargo and freight services
Cargo and freight services
Etihad Cargo
Emirates Sky Cargo
FlyDubai Cargo
Air Arabia Cargo
Dubai Airports cargo services
Sharjah International Airport's cargo services
Cargo facilities at Ras Al Khaimah International Airport
Cargo services at Fujairah International Airport
Complying with health, environment and safety regulations
Read about complying with health, environment and safety regulations.
complying with health, environment and safety
FAQs
Is it possible to renew the licence a month or two before its expiration date?
Yes.
Should a foreign company translate all its documents into Arabic if it wishes to open a branch in Dubai?
No.
What are the conditions for obtaining a consulting licence?
You need to have the requisite educational qualifications and obtain necessary approvals.
What are the fees for issuing a licence for the different activities and legal forms of a business?
The fees are not constant. They differ according to the different types of licences. The licence owner can check with the DED in the respective emirate.
What is the difference between a commercial name and a trademark?
A commercial name is the name on the licence plate on the shops, while the trademark is the logo that distinguishes each company.
Was this information helpful?
Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience.










Thank you for submitting your feedback.