Information and services
Business
Credit report of individuals and companies
The UAE provides official credit reports service to individuals and companies. These reports help applicants understand their debt levels and have a clear picture of their financial obligations. This will in turn enhance their ability to plan for future borrowing and manage their finances responsibly.
The UAE provides official credit reports service to individuals and companies. These reports help applicants understand their debt levels and have a clear picture of their financial obligations. This will in turn enhance their ability to plan for future borrowing and manage their finances responsibly.
official credit reports
What is a credit report and where can you obtain?
What is a credit report and where can you obtain?
Credit report is a document that includes your personal identity information, details of your credit cards, loans and other credit facilities, along with your payment and bounced cheque history.
Credit report is a document that includes your personal identity information, details of your credit cards, loans and other credit facilities, along with your payment and bounced cheque history.
Credit report

The information in your credit report is provided by all financial institutions in the UAE on a monthly basis, as required by Federal Law, in addition to other sources such as telecom companies and utilities.
Financial institutions need to assess the credit standing of an individual or company, when reviewing an application for a loan, credit card or other credit facilities.
Companies and individuals can check their credit report before applying for a loan, credit card or other credit facility.
Al Etihad Credit Bureau - AECB, a Public Joint Stock Company, which is wholly owned by the UAE Federal Government, issues credit reports for both companies and individuals, nationals and residents.
Al Etihad Credit Bureau
AECB
How individuals can apply for a credit report?
How individuals can apply for a credit report?
As an individual you can request a credit report by visiting one of Al Etihad Credit Bureau customer service centres, provide your original Emirates ID card and passport copy. You can pay with credit, debit or eDirham cards.


How companies can apply for a credit report?
How companies can apply for a credit report?
Commercial credit reports are subject to the approval of the Al Etihad Credit Bureau legal department, you need to:
Commercial credit reports are subject to the approval of the Al Etihad Credit Bureau legal department, you need to:
visit one of Al Etihad Credit Bureau customer service centres
provide the original valid Emirates ID card of the firm’s owner or that of the authorised signatory
an original valid trade licence of the firm
the original Articles of Association of the firm
a valid email address
payment can be made through credit or debit card.

You can also request credit reports through AECB app, available on Google Play and App store.
AECB app, available on Google Play and App store.
Google Play
App store

Useful links:
Useful links:
See steps required to get a credit report.
steps required to get a credit report
What to do if your credit report contains incorrect Information?
credit report contains incorrect Information
Sample credit report for individuals
Sample credit report for individuals
Sample credit report for corporates.
Sample credit report for corporates
Was this information helpful?
Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience.










Thank you for submitting your feedback.