Information and services
Education
School education (K-12)
Curricula and language of instruction
In addition to UAE's national curriculum, there are variety of international curricula taught in UAE schools. Read about the curriculum and language of instruction in private and public schools in the UAE.
In addition to UAE's national curriculum, there are variety of international curricula taught in UAE schools.
The government schools follow the standard national curriculum of the UAE. The language of instruction is Arabic for all subjects. English is taught as a second language and used for teaching technical or scientific subjects.
Private schools offer different curricula, which include but not limited to International Baccalaureate (IB), UAE's Ministry of Education, British, American, French, German, Indian, Pakistani and Filipino syllabuses. In addition to these specific syllabuses, private schools must offer core programmes such as Islamic education, social studies and Arabic as a second-language. These subjects are offered as special classes for non-Arabic speakers.

different curriculums in Abu Dhabi
School
curricula in Dubai - KHDA
curricula in Dubai

School curricula in Sharjah

In 2016, Abu Dhabi launched Moral Education initiative to be included in school curricula and courses in the form of a subject. The initiative was implemented in cooperation with Ministry of Education, the Department of Education and Knowledge and other relevant institutions. It aims to instil and preserve the UAE's values and morals. The subject  includes five key elements: ethics, personal and community development, culture and heritage, civic education, and rights and responsibilities.
Moral Education initiative
Department of Education and Knowledge

In 2015, H. H. Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid launched a national programme to include innovation and entrepreneurship into the curricula of both, public and private higher education institutions in the UAE. The initiative aims to develop higher education programmes to help meet the country's human resource requirements and produce specialised talent needed for the next phase of the UAE's development. In addition, the subject of innovation will be integrated into the UAE's schools and higher education institutes.
national programme

Find a school in the UAE
Was this information helpful?
Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience.










Thank you for submitting your feedback.