Information and services
Education
Higher education
Joining higher education institutions
Scholarships for UAE nationals
Apart from Ministry of Education, several government entities provide internal and/or external scholarships for UAE students according to certain terms and conditions.
Apart from Ministry of Education, several government entities provide internal and/or external scholarships for UAE students according to certain terms and conditions.
Scholarships from Ministry of Education
Scholarship programmes from other government entities
Scholarships from Ministry of Education
MoE provides scholarships to UAE nationals for graduate and undergraduate programmes to study abroad in one of the recognised universities as specified by the ministry provided the applicant:
Scholarships are provided to the following categories of applicants:
Scholarships are provided to the following categories of applicants:
Applicants may access scholarship eService to review terms and conditions and apply.
scholarship eService

Related eServices:
Majors specified for external scholarships
List of higher educational colleges/universities for scholarships abroad

Useful links
Useful links
Cultural attachés contacts
Conditions of scholarships
Getting a scholarship
Obtaining scholarships and part-time jobs


Cancellation of the scholarship
Cancellation of the scholarship
The scholarship will be terminated by a decision of the education Minister based on the federal law concerning scholarships and grants.
Scholarship programmes from other government entities
Scholarship Office (SCO) - Presidential Court
Scholarship Office at Ministry of Presidential Affairs selects outstanding Emirati students to travel abroad to pursue education at prestigious international universities. SCO administers two scholarship programmes:
Read about the terms and conditions and the process to apply to the Scholarship Office.
Read about the terms and conditions and the process to apply to the
Scholarship Office
.


Scholarships -
Department of Education and Knowledge
Department of Education and Knowledge provides scholarships to distinguished UAE students by partnering with organisations throughout the UAE. Scholarships are available in disciplines such as science and technology, teaching, urban planning, food control and transportation.
Department of Education and Knowledge

TDRA scholarship programme

Through its ICT Fund, Telecommunications and Digital Government Regulatory Authority offers Betha programme for undergraduate and graduate students wishing to study ICT-related subjects. The Betha programme has provided hundreds of scholarships for bachelor and masters degrees and enabled Emirati students to study in the UAE, the USA, Australia and Japan.
ICT Fund
Betha programme

Masar programme for college scholarships
Under the Masar programme, Ministry of Finance (MoF) offers college scholarships to assist UAE high-school graduates in completing their studies in finance, accounting and other disciplines at accredited universities in the UAE.

Entaliq scholarship programme
Mohammed Bin Rashid Space Centre (MBRSC) offers scholarships to the brightest students in the UAE who demonstrate the aspiration to become a top engineer or scientist. The programme allows access to international experience through MBRSC partnerships across the world. Applications can be submitted by sending the CV and required documents to: scholarships@mbrsc.ae.
Applications can be submitted by sending the CV and required documents to:
scholarships@mbrsc.ae
.

Read more about scholarships in the UAE and  Abu Dhabi.
scholarships in the UAE and  Abu Dhabi
Related links
Scholarships, fellowships and Graduate Assistantships

Was this information helpful?
Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience.










Thank you for submitting your feedback.