Information and services
Education
Higher education
Joining higher education institutions
Higher studies for non-UAE nationals
This page provides information on how non-UAE nationals can go for higher studies and obtain scholarships in the UAE.
General information
Scholarships for students from abroad
General information
Expatriate residents or international students can apply to private colleges/universities in the UAE. Recently, UAE University allowed expatriates to enrol against certain fees and achievements' criteria.
One can start by checking the  licensed institutions  and  accredited programmes  in the UAE. Applicants must meet study visa requirements set by General Directorate of Residency and Foreigners Affairs. They can check with their respective home embassy or consulate in the UAE about application procedures and other benefits and scholarships.
licensed institutions
accredited programmes
Foreigners looking at joining a university in the UAE can enquire through the UAE embassies abroad or contact the colleges/universities for requirements.
Useful links:
Useful links:
Test centres for EmSAT
Test centres for EmSAT

FAQs on admissions and certificate equivalency
Scholarships for students from abroad
Many universities in the UAE offer scholarships and grants to recognise leadership potential and outstanding academic achievements. In 1999, H. H. Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid announced the creation of scholarships for studying in the American University in Dubai for eligible students. This step reflects the government's commitment to education as the driving force in the accomplishment of Dubai's and the UAE's public agenda.
Many universities in the UAE offer scholarships to students from abroad, based on mutual agreements between the UAE Government and other countries. Check with the respective universities for the available academic and sports scholarship programmes.

For more information, please refer to:
Scholarships in Abu Dhabi
Undergraduate Scholarships for International Students
Was this information helpful?
Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience.










Thank you for submitting your feedback.