Information and services
Education
School education (K-12)
Equalising high school certificates
Ministry of Education is authorised to equalise high school certificates in the UAE. Find the process to equalise high school certificates.
Ministry of Education is authorised to equalise high school certificates in the UAE. Find the process to equalise high school certificates.
Authority in charge for equalising high school certificates
General conditions for equalising high school certificates
Authority in charge for equalising high school certificates
Ministry of Education is the entity authorised to equalise high school certificates in the UAE.
Ministry of Education is the entity authorised to equalise high school certificates in the UAE.
Ministry of Education
General conditions for equalising high school certificates
To apply for equalisation of high school certificate, the applicant:
To apply for equalisation of high school certificate, the applicant:
must be a UAE resident
needs to prove his identity by presenting a copy of his emirates ID and passport
needs to submit his original certificates, mainly grades (10,11 and 12), which will be returned after verification.
All certificates presented for the purpose of equalisation must be attested from Ministry of Education in the UAE and/or the education authority from the country of issuance.
Ministry of Education
School certificates issued from abroad, in languages other than Arabic and English, must be legally translated and duly attested.
Required documents for equalisation depend on the school curriculum, which the student completed. For high school certificate equivalency, you need to approach Ministry of Education offices in Dubai or Abu Dhabi or apply electronically by registering in the ministry’s site and filling an online form.
apply electronically
Based on your curriculum, check:
Conditions and required documents for high school certificate equivalency - Ministry of Education
Conditions and required documents for high school certificate equivalency
High school equivalency requirements – KHDA
High school equivalency requirements
Verify school certificates attested by Department of Education and Knowledge (ADEK) using the certificate reference number - ADEK -Abu Dhabi
Verify school certificates attested by Department of Education and Knowledge (ADEK) using the certificate reference number
Request for Equivalency Certificate - General Education from Abroad
Request for Equivalency of General Education certificate in the UAE (Grade 12)
School Completion Certificate for High School Graduates- ADEK.
School Completion Certificate for High School Graduates- ADEK.
School Completion Certificate for High School Graduates
Was this information helpful?
Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience.










Thank you for submitting your feedback.