Information and services
Education
Higher education
Student exchange programmes
The UAE offers student exchange programmes for both, citizens and foreign students.
For UAE students
For students from abroad
For UAE students
Students can check with Ministry of Education for available exchange programmes and also with foreign embassies and consulates in the UAE who might arrange student exchange programmes.
Ministry of Education for available exchange programmes
foreign embassies and consulates in the UAE
There are a  variety of US Government-sponsored exchange programmes  that link Emiratis and Americans, such as the Fulbright Program.
US Government-sponsored exchange programmes
These programmes are designed to give Emirati citizens an enriching academic, professional  and personal experience in the United States, as well as provide them with a chance to exchange ideas with their American counterparts.
Students may also enquire about available student exchange programs from  government higher education institutes and  private higher education institutes in the UAE.
government higher education institutes
private higher education institutes
Related links:
UAE Cultural Attaché
Student Exchange Program at United Arab Emirates University
Student Exchange Program- University of Dubai.
Student Exchange Program
For students from abroad
Students from around the world can apply for a number of available exchange programmes, which provide students with different educational and cultural experiences.
One of the programmes is the  student exchange programme by Petroleum Institute  in Abu Dhabi, which gives visiting students the opportunity to experience the United Arab Emirates while gaining transferable credits towards their engineering degree.
student exchange programme by Petroleum Institute
Other programmes are also offered by various universities in the UAE. Students can check with their respective university for available plans, in addition to contacting the UAE mission in their country.
Useful links:
UAE embassies and consulates overseas
Was this information helpful?
Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience.










Thank you for submitting your feedback.
Next topic
Recognition system for university ...

Next topic
Recognition system for university ...
Prev topic
Residence visa for studying in the UAE

Prev topic
Residence visa for studying in the UAE
View all services

View all services