Information and services
Education
School education (K-12)
Admission to the UAE government schools
UAE nationals, those holding the UAE's passports, GCC citizens and the children of those who hold UAE nationality by decrees, get free education in government schools. Expatriate students may attend public schools by paying fees and subject to approval, based on merit.
UAE nationals, those holding the UAE's passports, GCC citizens and the children of those who hold UAE nationality by decrees, get free education in government schools. Expatriate students may attend public schools by paying fees and subject to approval, based on merit.
Related digital services
Free school education in government schools
Admission of expatriates in government schools
Related digital services
Registration of new Emirati students and non national students in public schools
Request to amend student’s data that contain errors

Explore more digital services provided by Emirates Schools Establishment - ESE and Ministry of Education.
Emirates Schools Establishment - ESE
Ministry of Education
Free school education in government schools
The UAE offers free school education to:
The UAE offers free school education to:
the UAE nationals
holders of the UAE passports
GCC citizens
the children of holders of nationality by decrees issued by the UAE's President or the Vice President.


Read about the process of registering students in public schools- Emirates Schools Establishment.
Read about the process of registering students in public schools- Emirates Schools Establishment.
process of registering students in public schools
Admission of expatriates in government schools
Expatriate students are permitted to attend public schools on payment of 6,000 AED as tuition fees and subject to certain conditions. The conditions include:

The language of instruction in the UAE's public schools is Arabic for all subjects. The schools follow the Emirati national curriculum approved and supervised completely by Ministry of Education.

English is taught as a second language for basic grammar and comprehension.

Related links
Related links
Application for registration and admission of a student to a public school
Public School Registration Manual for the Academic Year 2023/2024
Was this information helpful?
Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience.










Thank you for submitting your feedback.