Information and services
Environment and energy
Water and energy
Energy and fuel prices
Subsidies on fuel encourage higher consumption and lower conservation. Therefore, the UAE decided to link the price of petrol to the price of oil to help rationalise fuel consumption and encourage the use of public transport in the long run, as well as incentivise the use of alternative fuels.
Subsidies on fuel encourage higher consumption and lower conservation. Therefore, the UAE decided to link the price of petrol to the price of oil to help rationalise fuel consumption and encourage the use of public transport in the long run, as well as incentivise the use of alternative fuels.
Deregulation of fuel prices
Price structure of energy
Find location of petrol stations
Deregulation of fuel prices
Fuel prices across the UAE were deregulated from August 2015, as the government has adopted a new policy linked to global prices. Ministry of Energy & Infrastructure and Ministry of Finance would act as the government's representatives in a committee set up to review fuel prices in the UAE every month.
adopted a new policy linked to global prices
Ministry of Energy & Infrastructure
The decision corresponds to the UAE's efforts to ensure sustainable development while preserving the environment, achieve a balance between economic and social development and to provide high quality of life for future generations.
In case of any violations, a complaint can be submitted to Ministry of Energy & Infrastructure via a dedicated phone number (02-6190000) and an email id (petroleum&gas@moei.gov.ae).
02-6190000
petroleum&gas@moei.gov.ae
petroleum&gas@moei.gov.ae
petroleum&gas@moei.gov.ae
Price structure of energy
The price structure varies depending on the utility. Part of the price reflects the cost of supply of natural gas to the respective emirate. For more information about prices in each emirate, check with the respective entity.
Find location of petrol stations
Find links to the location of petrol stations across the UAE:
Petrol stations location - Ministry of Energy & Infrastructure
Petrol stations location
Nearest stations from you- ADNOC
Nearest stations from you
Retail stations – Emarat
Retail stations
Enoc service stations
Enoc service stations
Gas station services in Dubai – Dubai Commercial Directory.
Gas station services in Dubai
Was this information helpful?
Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience.










Thank you for submitting your feedback.