Information and services
Environment and energy
Animal welfare
Banning private ownership of dangerous animals
Private ownership of wild, dangerous and exotic animals is banned. Only zoos, wildlife parks, circuses, breeding and research centres are allowed to keep them. The UAE’s laws are aimed at maintaining the rights and dignity of animals in the UAE.
Private ownership of wild, dangerous and exotic animals is banned. Only zoos, wildlife parks, circuses, breeding and research centres are allowed to keep them. The UAE’s laws are aimed at maintaining the rights and dignity of animals in the UAE.
The UAE  has passed  Federal Law No. 22 of 2016 (PDF, 350KB) which  regulates the possession and trade of predatory, dangerous and semi-dangerous animals. Under this law, only zoos, wildlife parks, circuses, breeding and research centres would be allowed to keep wild or exotic animals. In addition, dog owners would need to buy a licence for their pets and keep them on a leash at all times when in public.
Federal Law No. 22 of 2016
Fines for failing to comply with the law would range from AED 10,000 to 700,000 and may be accompanied by a jail term and the animal would be confiscated.

Animal welfare
Animal welfare
Federal Law No.18 of 2016, concerning animal welfare aims to maintain the rights and dignity of animals in the UAE.
Federal Law No.18 of 2016,
The UAE encourages the public to join voluntary activities related to animal protection. The UAE's Ministry of Climate Change and Environment  signed an agreement  with  Emirates Animal Welfare  Society and Emirates Park Zoo to promote animal protection.
signed an agreement
Emirates Park Zoo
The agreement aimed at raising public awareness on animal welfare. It complements the ministry's intensified efforts to defend and preserve animal rights as well as promote their humane treatment through awareness campaigns.
Emirates Animal Welfare Society is a voluntary institute that focusses on establishing and defending animal rights throughout the United Arab Emirates. In addition to identifying these rights, it aims to spread awareness on the importance of animal welfare and encourages the public to preserve the integrity of the environment and animals.
You can report cases of animal abuse to the police or to the municipality in the respective emirate.
Was this information helpful?
Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience.










Thank you for submitting your feedback.