Information and services
Environment and energy
Water and energy
Efforts to secure energy sources
Efforts to secure energy sources include the Dolphin energy project, exploring indigenous gas reserves, establishing the Emirates National Grid (ENG) and contributing to the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) Interconnection Grid.
Efforts to secure energy sources include the Dolphin energy project, exploring indigenous gas reserves, establishing the Emirates National Grid (ENG) and contributing to the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) Interconnection Grid.
The UAE Government's efforts to secure its energy sources include:
The Dolphin energy project
The Dolphin energy project
Gas provides over 90 percent of electricity generation and despite the fact that the UAE's natural gas reserves have been estimated as the 5th largest in the world, the UAE has been importing gas since 2007. The country receives approximately 2 billion cubic feet of gas per day (as of 2011) through the  Dolphin Energy pipeline from Qatar.
as of 2011
Dolphin Energy
Dubai has a facility to import three million tonnes of liquefied natural gas (LNG) per year. Another import facility is expected to be built in Fujairah with an import capacity of 9 million tonnes.
Exploring indigenous gas reserves
Exploring indigenous gas reserves
The UAE is also exploring indigenous gas reserves, such as sour gas resources projects undertaken by  Abu Dhabi National Oil Company  (ADNOC).
Abu Dhabi National Oil Company
Establishing the Emirates National Grid (ENG)
Establishing the Emirates National Grid (ENG)
Read about the Emirates National Grid project.
the Emirates National Grid project
Contributing to the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) Interconnection Grid
Contributing to the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) Interconnection Grid
The UAE's ENG project coincides with the development of the  Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC)  Interconnection Grid that will link Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the UAE under one regional grid.
Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC)
The UAE contributed AED 800 million to the AED 5.1-billion project (as of 2011) to build regional power grid, which is expected to save the participating countries up to AED 18.4 billion (USD 5 billion) in electricity costs over its lifetime and will lay the foundation for a common GCC energy market.
as of 2011
Was this information helpful?
Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience.










Thank you for submitting your feedback.