Information and services
Jobs
Working in UAE government sector
Reporting grievances
Every federal entity is required to have a 'Greivance Committee' to look into complaints raised by employees against administrative penalties. Dubai Government entities have Work-related Offences Committee, Grievances and Complaints Committee and a Central Grievances Committee to handle employee complaints.
Every federal entity is required to have a 'Greivance Committee' to look into complaints raised by employees against administrative penalties. Dubai Government entities have Work-related Offences Committee, Grievances and Complaints Committee and a Central Grievances Committee to handle employee complaints.
Federal Government
Dubai Government
Federal Government
Federal Decree Law No. 49 of 2022 on Human Resources in the Federal Government (PDF, 1.43 MB) and the Executive Regulations of Human Resources Law in the Federal Government (PDF, 1.43 MB) lay down the provisions regarding complaining about problems in office in the public sector.
Federal Decree Law No. 49 of 2022 on Human Resources in the Federal Government (PDF, 1.43 MB) and the Executive Regulations of Human Resources Law in the Federal Government (PDF, 1.43 MB) lay down the provisions regarding complaining about problems in office in the public sector.
Federal Decree Law No. 49 of 2022 on Human Resources in the Federal Government
Executive Regulations of Human Resources Law in the Federal Government
With regard to administrative matters, every federal entity is required to have a ‘Grievance Committee’ to look into complaints raised by employees against administrative penalties.
Employees who face administrative penalties can challenge them in writing to the ‘Grievance Committee’ within five working days of receiving a notification.

Refer to FAQs on working in the public sector.
FAQs on working in the public sector
Dubai Government
According to Law No. 8 of 2018 Concerning the Management of the Government of Dubai Human Resources, a Work-related Offences Committee will be formed in each department. It will be responsible for considering and deciding on the work-related offences committed by employees and for imposing disciplinary penalties on them. In addition, there will also be a Grievances and Complaints Committee which will handle employee complaints against any decision or measure taken by his department.
According to Law No. 8 of 2018 Concerning the Management of the Government of Dubai Human Resources, a Work-related Offences Committee will be formed in each department. It will be responsible for considering and deciding on the work-related offences committed by employees and for imposing disciplinary penalties on them. In addition, there will also be a Grievances and Complaints Committee which will handle employee complaints against any decision or measure taken by his department.
Law No. 8 of 2018 Concerning the Management of the Government of Dubai Human Resources
A member of the Grievances and Complaints Committee cannot be a member of the Work-related Offences Committee and vice-versa. An employee may also raise a grievance with the Central Grievances Committee against any decision or measure taken by his department in respect of which a grievance has been submitted to the Grievances and Complaints Committee.


Read about employment violation system for the local governments of the UAE:
Read about employment violation system for the local governments of the UAE:
Human Resources Law - Human Resources Department-Government of Ras Al Khaimah
Human Resources Law
Regulations and Circulars - Human Resources Department-Government of Ras Al Khaimah
Regulations and Circulars
Was this information helpful?
Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience.










Thank you for submitting your feedback.