Information and services
Jobs
Working in UAE government sector
Implementing a remote work system in the federal government in normal situations
The UAE Government will implement the remote work system, on a full time or part time basis, even during ordinary situations. The new remote work system will continue alongside the traditional work system, wherein the employees will be executing their work at the entities’ premises. It will be for current and future Emirati employees who are eligible to work remotely based on set criteria.
In April 2020, the UAE Government issued Cabinet Resolution No. 27 for 2020 Regarding Remote Work System in the Federal Government (PDF-365 KB), in which it was decided to implement the remote work system, on a full time or part time basis, even during ordinary situations.
In April 2020, the UAE Government issued Cabinet Resolution No. 27 for 2020 Regarding Remote Work System in the Federal Government (PDF-365 KB), in which it was decided to implement the remote work system, on a full time or part time basis, even during ordinary situations.
Cabinet Resolution No. 27 for 2020 Regarding Remote Work System in the Federal Government


The new remote work system will continue alongside the traditional work system, wherein the employees will be executing their work at the entities’ premises.
The new remote work system will continue alongside the traditional work system, wherein the employees will be executing their work at the entities’ premises.


This resolution applies to current and future Emirati employees who are eligible to work remotely as determined by the federal entities, in coordination with Federal Authority for Government Human Resources (FAHR) and in accordance with the human resources procedures and electronic systems approved by the Federal Government.
This resolution applies to current and future Emirati employees who are eligible to work remotely as determined by the federal entities, in coordination with
Federal Authority for Government Human Resources
Federal Authority for Government Human Resources

FAHR) and in accordance with the human resources procedures and electronic systems approved by the Federal Government.


The resolution mentions a set of criteria that ministries and federal entities must observe to determine if a job can be done remotely. Jobs allowed for remote working must meet the following conditions:
The resolution mentions a set of criteria that ministries and federal entities must observe to determine if a job can be done remotely. Jobs allowed for remote working must meet the following conditions:
the job must be
of divisible nature
it can be automated
its inputs can be handled through electronic systems.


Only those employees would be selected for working remotely who:
Only those employees would be selected for working remotely who:
occupy a job that can be performed remotely
are sincere, abide by quality and accuracy of work and confidentiality of information
have attained performance expectations, at least up to the last performance appraisal
have not been subject to any administrative penalties for breach of
Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct
Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct
for civil service.


Contact FAHR for more information about the remote work system in the federal government.
Contact FAHR
Contact FAHR

for more information about the remote work system in the federal government.
Was this information helpful?
Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience.










Thank you for submitting your feedback.