Information and services
Justice, safety and the law
Handling  the COVID-19 outbreak
Guidelines related to COVID-19
Guidelines for office and workplace environment during emergency conditions
When federal government employees return to work from offices, they would have to follow certain guidelines to make sure COVID-19 does not spread further. Some of the guidelines are to maintain a distance of at least 2 metres between the desks, wearing masks and gloves and using sanitisers.
When federal government employees return to work from offices, they would have to follow certain guidelines to make sure COVID-19 does not spread further. Some of the guidelines are to maintain a distance of at least 2 metres between the desks, wearing masks and gloves and using sanitisers.

In preparation for the return of the employees of federal entities to their workplace, Federal Authority for Human Resources prepared a document of guidelines to aid the smooth return of employees and ensure that there is no further contamination or relapse of COVID-19. The guidelines aim to facilitate the functioning of entities while adhering to the highest standards of health, safety and environment.
In preparation for the return of the employees of federal entities to their workplace, Federal Authority for Human Resources prepared a document of guidelines to aid the smooth return of employees and ensure that there is no further contamination or relapse of COVID-19. The guidelines aim to facilitate the functioning of entities while adhering to the highest standards of health, safety and environment.


The specific aims of the guidelines are to:
The specific aims of the
guidelines are to:
provide instructions to guarantee health and safety of employees at the workplace and on their commute
apply the best practices in maintaining hygiene in public/shared spaces
provide a work environment that complies with the highest standards of occupational safety and health
provide psychological and mental support to employees and prepare them to return to workplaces
guarantee the safety and continuity of business in federal government.


Some of the guidelines are:
Some of the guidelines are:











Read the guidelines for work environment and returning to work after emergencies (PDF 550 KB).

the guidelines for work environment and returning to work after emergencies
Was this information helpful?
Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience.










Thank you for submitting your feedback.