Information and services
Justice, safety and the law
Handling  the COVID-19 outbreak
Supporting the labour market in the private sector in times of COVID-19
The UAE Government implemented remote working system in the private sector to protect employees from getting exposed to COVID-19. It also allowed expatriate workers in the private sector to return to their home countries and return when COVID-19 cases reduce. It made it easy to renew the work permits and residence visas of labourers and support service staff such as domestic workers. It lifted restrictions imposed on establishments enabling them to get new internal work permits and renew existing work permits, and issue new internal work permits for professions of the third skill level. 
Note: The above was implemented during the early phase of pandemic (in 2020) and was slowly phased out as the situation returned to normalcy.
The UAE Government implemented remote working system in the private sector to protect employees from getting exposed to COVID-19. It also allowed expatriate workers in the private sector to return to their home countries and return when COVID-19 cases reduce. It made it easy to renew the work permits and residence visas of labourers and support service staff such as domestic workers. It lifted restrictions imposed on establishments enabling them to get new internal work permits and renew existing work permits, and issue new internal work permits for professions of the third skill level.
The UAE Government implemented remote working system in the private sector to protect employees from getting exposed to COVID-19. It also allowed expatriate workers in the private sector to return to their home countries and return when COVID-19 cases reduce. It made it easy to renew the work permits and residence visas of labourers and support service staff such as domestic workers. It lifted restrictions imposed on establishments enabling them to get new internal work permits and renew existing work permits, and issue new internal work permits for professions of the third skill level.
Note: The above was implemented during the early phase of pandemic (in 2020) and was slowly phased out as the situation returned to normalcy.
Note:
The above was implemented during the early phase of pandemic (in 2020) and was slowly phased out as the situation returned to normalcy.
Renewal of work permits and residence visas amid COVID-19
Early leave during COVID19
Implementing remote working system on the private sector
Regulating employer-employee relationship in the private sector
Stability of the labour market in the private sector