Information and services
Justice, safety and the law
Litigation procedures
Alternative methods to settle commercial disputes
Arbitration or out-of-court settlement is increasing in the UAE. Here are some arbitration institutions for commercial disputes.
Related eServices
UAE federal law on arbitration
Arbitration
Key arbitration institutions
Related eServices
Renew your registration as an arbitrator
Calculate cost of arbitration
UAE federal law on arbitration
In May 2018, the UAE issued Federal Law No. 6 of 2018 on Arbitration (PDF) . The new arbitration law annuls articles 203 to 218 of the UAE Civil Procedures Law No. 11 of 1992 which tackled some provisions of arbitration in UAE.
In May 2018, the UAE issued Federal Law No. 6 of 2018 on Arbitration (PDF) . The new arbitration law annuls articles 203 to 218 of the UAE Civil Procedures Law No. 11 of 1992 which tackled some provisions of arbitration in UAE.
Federal Law No. 6 of 2018 on Arbitration


The new arbitration law contains 61 articles and it applies on:
The new arbitration law contains 61 articles and it applies on:
any arbitration conducted in the UAE, unless the parties agree that another law should govern the arbitration, provided it is not in conflict with the public order of the state.
any international commercial arbitration conducted abroad, if the parties chose this law to govern such arbitration.
any arbitration arising from a dispute in respect of a legal relationship, whether contractual or not, governed by UAE law, unless it is excluded by a special provision.


In addition to Federal Law No. 6 of 2018 on Arbitration, arbitration is also governed  by Federal Law No. 11 of 1992 concerning the Civil Procedural Law. The following sections of said code cover the use of arbitration:


Arbitration
Considering the UAE is a major trading hub and a host country for foreign investment, arbitration is becoming an optimal method, for parties to solve their commercial disputes.
Many foreign investors prefer to assign their disputes to arbitration committees for many reasons such as:
The arbitrator's decision is viewed as a settlement having the power of execution once being acquired by the court of law concerned.
In 2012, on an average, 57 per cent cases were settled through alternative methods.
Refer to mediation.
mediation
In addition to the above, a number of specialised federal courts were established to handle special types of cases. Some of them are:
Key arbitration institutions
The Abu Dhabi Commercial, Conciliation and Arbitration Centre
The Abu Dhabi Commercial, Conciliation and Arbitration Centre
In 1993,  Abu Dhabi Chamber established Abu Dhabi Commercial Conciliation and Arbitration Centre to settle trade disputes through conciliation and arbitration. The centre kept panels to register the names of specialists in the fields of conciliation, arbitration, expertise and translation.
Abu Dhabi Chamber
Abu Dhabi Commercial Conciliation and Arbitration Centre
Conciliation is conducted through a mediator accredited by the centre or selected by both disputing parties.
The conciliator's decision concerning a dispute is not considered binding, but it has the nature of recommendation on a proposal for dispute solving.
The default language is Arabic, unless the parties expressly choose English.


The Dubai International Arbitration Centre (DIAC)
The Dubai International Arbitration Centre (DIAC)
Dubai holds an autonomous arbitration institution known as Dubai International Arbitration Centre (DIAC) which replaced the former Centre for Commercial Conciliation and Arbitration.
Dubai International Arbitration Centre
Read the  DIAC Arbitration Rules, 2022 (PDF, 1 MB).
DIAC Arbitration Rules, 2022 (PDF, 1 MB).




International Islamic Centre for Reconciliation and Arbitration (IICRA)
International Islamic Centre for Reconciliation and Arbitration (IICRA)
International Islamic Centre for Reconciliation and Arbitration (IICRA) is an international, independent, non-profit organisation of the Islamic finance industry.
International Islamic Centre for Reconciliation and Arbitration
(IICRA) is an international, independent, non-profit organisation of the Islamic finance industry.
The centre settles financial and commercial disputes that arise between financial or business institutions and their clients or between them and third parties that choose to apply the provisions of Islamic law and sharia principles in resolving disputes through reconciliation or arbitration.
The centre practices locally, across GCC and internationally. Agreement of the parties is required for IICRA's jurisdiction.
For more information, refer to  IICRA.
IICRA


Other arbitration institutions in UAE
Other arbitration institutions in UAE
Sharjah International Commercial Arbitration Centre
Was this information helpful?
Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience.










Thank you for submitting your feedback.