Information and services
Justice, safety and the law
Handling  the COVID-19 outbreak
2019 novel coronavirus (COVID-19)
On 30 January 2020, World Health Organization (WHO) declared the outbreak of the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV or COVID-19) as a global health emergency. If you have persistent fever, shortness of breath or pneumonia, request health care for yourself and avoid mixing with others.
On 30 January 2020, World Health Organization (WHO) declared the outbreak of the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV or COVID-19) as a global health emergency. If you have persistent fever, shortness of breath or pneumonia, request health care for yourself and avoid mixing with others.
On 30 January 2020,
World Health Organization (WHO)
World Health Organization (WHO)
declared the outbreak of the
2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV or COVID-19)
2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV or COVID-19)
as a global health emergency. If you have persistent fever, shortness of breath or pneumonia, request health care for yourself and avoid mixing with others.
What is a coronavirus?
Symptoms of 2019 novel coronavirus (COVID-19)
What is the UAE doing to contain it?
What is a coronavirus?
According to WHO, coronaviruses (CoV) are a large family of viruses that cause illness ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS-CoV) and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS-CoV). A novel coronavirus (nCoV) is a new strain that has not been previously identified in humans.
According to WHO,
coronaviruses
coronaviruses
(CoV) are a large family of viruses that cause illness ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS-CoV) and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS-CoV). A
(CoV)
is a new strain that has not been previously identified in humans.
Symptoms of 2019 novel coronavirus (COVID-19)
According to WHO,  people infected with the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV or COVID-19) are likely to show the following symptoms:
According to WHO,  people infected with the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV or COVID-19) are likely to show the following symptoms:
WHO
dry cough
fever
tiredness

Less common symptoms include aches and pains, nasal congestion, headache, conjunctivitis, sore throat, diarrhea, loss of taste or smell and a rash on skin.


If the symptoms continue,
Stay at home and avoid mixing with others.
Request health care, by contacting the health service by phone and provide them with your travel history.
Do not travel while having symptoms.
Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when coughing or sneezing.
Clean hands by washing them for at least 20 seconds with soap and water or with alcohol sterilisers.


People who experience fever and/or cough associated with difficulty in breathing or shortness of breath, chest pain or pressure, or loss of speech or movement should seek medical attention immediately.
What is the UAE doing to contain it?
The UAE Government started the service of testing for COVID-19 and vaccinating people.
testing for COVID-19
vaccinating people
Also, read about the primary steps taken to contain the spread of COVID-19.
steps taken to contain the spread of COVID-19


Was this information helpful?
Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience.










Thank you for submitting your feedback.