Information and services
Justice, safety and the law
Handling  the COVID-19 outbreak
Supporting the labour market in the private sector in times of COVID-19
Early leave during COVID-19
The UAE Government is allowing expatriate workers in the private sector to go to their home countries and return when the COVID-19 cases reduce. Employees can apply for an early leave by submitting an application for annual leave or agreeing with their employer for unpaid leave. Read about the conditions and procedures for applying for an early leave.
Note: The above was implemented during the early phase of pandemic (in 2020) and was slowly phased out as the situation returned to normalcy.
The UAE Government is allowing expatriate workers in the private sector to go to their home countries and return when the COVID-19 cases reduce. Employees can apply for an early leave by submitting an application for annual leave or agreeing with their employer for unpaid leave. Read about the conditions and procedures for applying for an early leave.
The UAE Government is allowing expatriate workers in the private sector to go to their home countries and return when the COVID-19 cases reduce. Employees can apply for an early leave by submitting an application for annual leave or agreeing with their employer for unpaid leave. Read about the conditions and procedures for applying for an early leave.
Note: The above was implemented during the early phase of pandemic (in 2020) and was slowly phased out as the situation returned to normalcy.
Note: The above was implemented during the early phase of pandemic (in 2020) and was slowly phased out as the situation returned to normalcy.
On 5 April 2020, Ministry of Human Resources and Emiratisation (MoHRE) announced that it is letting expatriate workers in the private sector to return to their home countries if they so desire for the period in which many measures have been implemented to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus, COVID-19.
Ministry of Human Resources and Emiratisation
(

Employees can apply for an early leave by submitting an application for annual leave or agreeing with their employer for unpaid leave.

MoHRE launched this step of early leave in cooperation with other federal entities as a part of the humanitarian efforts of the UAE to meet the needs of the residents seeking to return to their home countries.

MoHRE has set five procedures that private firms need to comply with for early leave requests. They are:
MoHRE has set
five procedures
five procedures
that private firms need to comply with for early leave requests. They are:
leave duration must be specified in the additional temporary form for the job contract and the form must be signed by both parties
additional temporary form for the job contract
employers must book round-trip tickets for the employees
labour law
leave ends after the precautionary period is over and the employee is back
work permits and residence visas of those who went back to their countries will be renewed automatically, if they expire during the leave period.

Read related news coverage.
Read related news coverage.

Was this information helpful?
Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience.










Thank you for submitting your feedback.