Information and services
Justice, safety and the law
Handling  the COVID-19 outbreak
Safety standards for tourism and retail establishments amid COVID-19
The UAE Government introduced several safety standards for tourism and retail establishments to follow amid the pandemic of COVID-19. The safety standards aim to build trust in tourists and customers about their health and safety while they are at these establishments and thus boost tourism and economy. Safety standards include: the ‘Dubai Assured’ stamp, the 'Go Safe' certification programme, Bureau Veritas (BV) certification and mandatory COVID-19 tests for all tourism sector staff.
The UAE Government introduced several safety standards for tourism and retail establishments to follow amid the pandemic of COVID-19. The safety standards aim to build trust in tourists and customers about their health and safety while they are at these establishments and thus boost tourism and economy. Safety standards include: the ‘Dubai Assured’ stamp, the 'Go Safe' certification programme, Bureau Veritas (BV) certification and mandatory COVID-19 tests for all tourism sector staff.
The UAE Government introduced several safety standards for tourism and retail establishments to follow amid the pandemic of COVID-19. The safety standards aim to build trust in tourists and customers about their health and safety while they are at these establishments and thus boost tourism and economy.
Safety standards include: the ‘Dubai Assured’ stamp, the 'Go Safe' certification programme, Bureau Veritas (BV) certification and mandatory COVID-19 tests for all tourism sector staff.
‘Dubai Assured’ stamp
'Go Safe' certification programme
BV Certification
Mandatory Covid-19 tests for all tourism sector staff
‘Dubai Assured’ stamp
The ‘Dubai Assured’ stamp is a part of the health and safety compliance programme. The stamp is issued to hotels, retail establishments, F&B outlets and entertainment attractions that have implemented all public health protocols for the prevention and management of COVID-19. The programme is part of the efforts to showcase Dubai as one of the world’s safest destinations as it has started to receive tourists.

The specially designed ‘Dubai Assured’ stamp, which is issued free of charge, has a validity of 15 days. It can be renewed every two weeks upon further verification by inspectors from the relevant authorities.



Image source: Dubai Tourism
Image source:
Dubai Tourism
Dubai Tourism

The stamp is a visual mark which can reassure guests that safety and hygiene measures prescribed by the authorities have been complied with across all tiers and categories of tourist and resident facilities such as hotels, attractions, retail, food and beverage outlets, and leisure and entertainment destinations. The establishments can feature this stamp in their marketing communications.

Read news coverage on WAM.
WAM

Learn more and read FAQs on the website of Dubai Tourism.
the website of Dubai Tourism
'Go Safe' certification programme
The Go Safe Certification is a programme launched by Department of Culture and Tourism – Abu Dhabi, and endorsed by Abu Dhabi Government, which is aimed at elevating and standardising hygiene and cleanliness levels across tourism and retail establishments in the emirate.

The Certification will first be conferred to compliant hotels that meet the required hygiene and standards. As Abu Dhabi moves forward in reviving touristic activity and receiving more and more visitors, the Certification will be expanded to include other facilities such as malls, museums, amusement parks and restaurants. 

The launch of the Go Safe Certification goes hand in hand with the commitment and efforts of the Abu Dhabi Government to combat the spread of COVID-19, which include widespread testing, city-wide sanitation, social distancing, and enhanced healthcare services.
Read related news coverage on WAM.
WAM
Read more about "Go Safe" programme on the website of Abu Dhabi Department of Culture and Tourism.
Abu Dhabi Department of Culture and Tourism

In line with #AbuDhabi’s efforts to limit the spread of Covid-19, @dctabudhabi launches the Go Safe certification programme to implement the highest health and safety standards across hotels and tourist attractions. pic.twitter.com/WpWVB5ncXb
#AbuDhabi
@dctabudhabi
pic.twitter.com/WpWVB5ncXb
June 20, 2020
BV Certification
Bureau Veritas (BV) certification
BV is the highest level of recognition that comprises of a comprehensive checklist to confirm compliance with good hygiene practices, social distancing, and every listed recommendation to maintain the highest levels of safety.
Mandatory Covid-19 tests for all tourism sector staff
In line with the 'Go Safe' certification programme spearheaded by the Department of Culture and Tourism – Abu Dhabi, regular COVID-19 testing for all tourism sector staff has been made mandatory.
The effort is part of DCT Abu Dhabi’s extensive and ongoing efforts to ensure the health and safety of its residents and visitors and follows the recent launch of the ‘Rediscover Abu Dhabi’ campaign aimed at engaging with the myriad staycation and touristic offers made available to visitors within the UAE capital.
Rediscover Abu Dhabi’ campaign
Read related news coverage on WAM.
WAM


The Department of Culture and Tourism – Abu Dhabi has mandated regular COVID-19 testing for all tourism sector staff #InAbuDhabi. In line with the Go Safe Certification Programme, and following the recent launch of the #RediscoverAbuDhabi campaign pic.twitter.com/m7MvrKkEJO
#InAbuDhabi
#RediscoverAbuDhabi
pic.twitter.com/m7MvrKkEJO
July 27, 2020
Was this information helpful?
Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience.










Thank you for submitting your feedback.