Information and services
Social affairs
People of determination
Rehabilitation of people of determination
Read about the rehabilitation, and support centres and programmes for people of determination in the UAE.
Read about the rehabilitation, and support centres and programmes for people of determination in the UAE.
Article 3 of the Federal Law No. 29 of 2006 Concerning the Rights of People with Disabilities, as amended with federal law No.14 of 2009 (the law) provides: The UAE guarantees people of determination (people with disabilities) the equality and non-discrimination between them and people without disabilities in all legislations as well as economic and social development programmes and policies.
Article 3 of the

Federal Law No. 29 of 2006 Concerning the Rights of People with Disabilities
Federal Law No. 29 of 2006 Concerning the Rights of People with Disabilities
, as amended with federal law No.14 of 2009 (the law)
Ministry of Community Development  has launched the  Harmonization of Disabled Persons  initiative to integrate them into the society. It issues the 'Atheer' card; holders of which are entitled to a variety of services and privileges in the areas of health and housing. They are exempt from fees on vehicle-related services and also get discount on mobile data package.
Ministry of Community Development
Ministry of Interior's  Centers for the rehabilitation and employment  for people with special needs, offer training, rehabilitation and employment opportunities with the aim of integrating people of determination into the society.
Centers for the rehabilitation and employment
Zayed Higher Organization for People of Determination (ZHO) works as an umbrella for all humanitarian bodies, social services, orphanages, special needs institutions and any future bodies established in Abu Dhabi for such goals.
Zayed Higher Organization for People of Determination
Community Development Authority in Dubai issues  Sanad card  to Emiratis and expatriate residents of determination. Holders of the Sanad card are entitled to special services and privileges.
Sanad card
View a list of government and private centres for people of determination in the UAE. (Available only in Arabic language.)
government and private centres for people of determination

For more information about rehabilitation for people of determination, refer to below links:
Abu Dhabi:
Employment for people of determination
Empower people of determination

Dubai:
Noor Dubai
Dubai Autism Center
Dubai Center for Special Needs
Dubai Club for People of Determination

Other emirates
Sharjah City for Humanitarian Services
UAQ Ruler allocates land for Rehabilitation Centre for the disabled

The following associations provide special programmes for people of determination ones:
Emirates Foundation
Tamkeen
UAE Deaf Association
Was this information helpful?
Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience.










Thank you for submitting your feedback.