Information and services
Social affairs
Gender equality
Gender gap reports
The UAE was ranked 1st across the Arab countries in the World Economic Forum’s Global Gender Gap Report 2022. Additionally, the UAE was ranked 1st globally in 5 of the report’s sub-indicators, which are: enrolment in primary education, enrolment in secondary education, enrolment in tertiary education, sex ratio at birth and women in parliament.
The UAE was ranked 1st across the Arab countries in the World Economic Forum’s Global Gender Gap Report 2022. Additionally, the UAE was ranked 1st globally in 5 of the report’s sub-indicators, which are: enrolment in primary education, enrolment in secondary education, enrolment in tertiary education, sex ratio at birth and women in parliament.
WEF’s Global Gender Gap Report 2023
The UAE in UNDP’s Gender Inequality Index-GII
WEF’s Global Gender Gap Report 2023
The UAE was ranked 1st across the Arab countries in the World Economic Forum’s Global Gender Gap Report 2023. Additionally, the UAE was ranked 1st globally in 3 of the report’s sub-indicators:
The UAE was ranked 1st across the Arab countries in the
World Economic Forum’s Global Gender Gap Report 2023
World Economic Forum’s Global Gender Gap Report 2023
World Economic Forum’s Global Gender Gap Report 2023
. Additionally, the UAE was ranked 1st globally in 3 of the report’s sub-indicators:
enrolment in tertiary education
sex ratio at birth
women in parliament.


The UAE is one of the world's leading countries in terms of the percentage of women's parliamentary representation, with 50 per cent positions in the Federal National Council. In addition, the UAE has a high representation of women in the labour market, specialised jobs and jobs of the future.

The UAE in UNDP’s Gender Inequality Index-GII
The UAE was ranked 7th globally and 1st regionally in the Gender Inequality Index (GII) of the United Nations Development Programme’s Human Development Report 2024. From being ranked 49th in 2015, the UAE rose to the 11th place in the 2021 and 2022 editions of the report.
The UAE was ranked
ranked
7th globally and 1st regionally in the Gender Inequality Index (GII
7th globally and 1st regionally in the Gender Inequality Index
)
of the United Nations Development Programme’s Human Development Report 2024. From being ranked 49th in 2015, the UAE rose to the 11th place in the 2021 and 2022 editions of the report.


The UNDP publishes the Human Development Report annually. Gender Inequality Index is a part of the report that measures gender balance across three dimensions:
The UNDP publishes the Human Development Report annually.
Gender Inequality Index
Gender Inequality Index
Gender Inequality Index
is a part of the report that measures gender balance across three dimensions:
reproductive health
empowerment
labour market.






The index ranks countries across these five indicators:
The index ranks countries across these five indicators:
maternal mortality ratio
adolescent birth rate
female and male shares of parliamentary seats
female and male population with at least secondary education
female and male labour force participation rates.


Read the
United Nations Development Programme’s Human Development Report 2024
(PDF, 945 MB)
United Nations Development Programme’s Human Development Report 2022
Was this information helpful?
Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience.










Thank you for submitting your feedback.