Information and services
Social affairs
Digital services for social protection

Links from entity websites
Soun system for early detection of domestic abuse
Get free family counselling and consultation
Links from entity websites
You will find all eServices relating to social protection on the Services A-Z page. In addition, find below links to eServices on the website of respective entities responsible for the social protection sector in the UAE.
Services A-Z page
Ministry of Community Development
Zayed Higher Organization for People of Determination
Community Development Authority
Abu Dhabi Social Support Authority

Social Services Department – Government of Sharjah
General Pensions and Social Security Authority
Sheikh Zayed Housing Programme
Abu Dhabi Housing Authority

(ADHA)
Mohammed Bin Rashid Housing Establishment

Soun system for early detection of domestic abuse
‘Soun’ is an innovative system for early detection of potential abuse of any family member.
Soun’

It can help a person identify if he/she might be a victim of possible domestic abuse by getting answers to a set of questions.

Results are displayed in colour codes as explained below:

The system also offers guidance on what to do if his/her situation falls under a yellow or red situation. It aims to maintain the stability of the family and achieve its well-being.

The system provides:

Soun is an Arabic word which means safeguard. Access Soun on the ‘MOCD Connect’ app available on App Store and Google Play.
App Store
Google Play

Related links
Related links
Family Protection Guide 2022
(PDF, 500 KB)
Brochure on Soun
‘Soun’ Innovative System for Early Detection Against Potential Abuse maintains family protection, wellbeing
Get free family counselling and consultation
The UAE government provides free of charge family counselling and consultation  through the following entities:
The UAE government provides free of charge family counselling and consultation  through the following entities:
Ministry of Community Development (MoCD)
Ministry of Community Development
Community Development Authority (CDA)
Community Development Authority
Judicial Department-Abu Dhabi
Judicial Department-Abu Dhabi
Family Development Foundation

MoCD provides  family counselling and consultations to UAE nationals and residents through:
Family counselling eService

MoCD in collaboration with the General Women's Union, and ten other federal and local entities launched the ‘Unified Family Counselling Portal’ to provide family counselling services.
General Women's Union
Unified Family Counselling Portal’
Ministry of Justice provides smart family counselling, which uses artificial intelligence  to ensure efficient and speedy response to all inquiries and consultations.
smart family counselling

In Abu Dhabi use this eService to get family counselling or call Family Development Foundation on toll free no. 800 33322
eService
Family Development Foundation
800 33322

In Dubai, you can seek help from a social worker and make an appointment by calling Community Development Authority (CDA) at toll free number 8002121.

In Sharjah, Women's Protection Centre of the Social Services Department of Government of Sharjah (SSSD) has allocated a toll free number 800-800-700 to provide social, psychological and legal counselling and solutions to domestic issues by legal, social and psychological specialists. SSSD also provides family consultations through its website (available only in Arabic).
Social Services Department of Government of Sharjah
family consultations

Related links
Family conciliation
Family guidance
Was this information helpful?
Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience.










Thank you for submitting your feedback.
Next topic
Society and We the UAE 2031 Vision

Next topic
Society and We the UAE 2031 Vision
Prev topic
FAQs about social affairs

Prev topic
FAQs about social affairs
View all services

View all services