Information and services
Visiting and exploring the UAE
What to do in the UAE?
Explore the UAE by emirate
Find a list of unique places to visit in each of the seven emirates of the UAE. Visit Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque in Abu Dhabi, Burj Khalifa in Dubai, Heart of Sharjah in the emirate of Sharjah, Masfout Castle in Ajman and the beautiful beaches in Ras Al Khaimah.
Find a list of unique places to visit in each of the seven emirates of the UAE. Visit Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque in Abu Dhabi, Burj Khalifa in Dubai, Heart of Sharjah in the emirate of Sharjah, Masfout Castle in Ajman and the beautiful beaches in Ras Al Khaimah.
Book tours
Abu Dhabi
Dubai
Sharjah
Ajman
Umm Al Quwain
Ras Al Khaimah
Fujairah
Book tours
Book a visit to Sheikh Zayed mosque
Book a visit to Sheikh Zayed mosque
Book a visit to At the top, Burj Khalifa
Book a visit to At the top, Burj Khalifa
Buy tickets to Dubai Parks and Resorts
Buy tickets to Dubai Parks and Resorts
Buy tickets to the Dubai Frame
Buy tickets to the Dubai Frame
Abu Dhabi
The largest emirate in the UAE borders the  Empty Quarter desert wherein lies the  world's tallest sand dune, Tel Moreeb. The Abu Dhabi emirate is a must-visit place for those who admire the deserts, oases, wildlife, islands, virgin coastlines and modern cityscapes.
Empty Quarter desert
world's tallest sand dune, Tel Moreeb
Abu Dhabi city is where the magnificent  Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque  and the opulent  Emirates Palace  (hotel) stand. You can visit the city for  Yas WaterWorld  and  Ferrari World  as well.
Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque
Emirates Palace
Yas WaterWorld
Ferrari World
Visitors can explore former palaces, forts, museums and many cultural sites. Some of the notable landmarks are:
Al Maqta Fort
Heritage Village
Al Ain National Museum
.
Some of the natural sites include the Jebel Hafeet mountain, whose peak is the emirate's highest point and the oasis in Al Ain. The date palm oasis has been recognised by United Nations' Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) for its importance as a repository of genetic resources, biodiversity and cultural heritage. It has also been designated as a Globally Important Agricultural Heritage System (GIAHS). Al Ain is also home to the  UNESCO heritage sites. Additionally, the emirate of Abu Dhabi also has a lot of  gardens and parks.
Jebel Hafeet
the oasis in Al Ain
UNESCO heritage sites
gardens and parks
.
New districts
New districts
Abu Dhabi has developed many new districts which offer great entertainment and recreational value.
Saadiyat Island  is an excellent tourist destination with a cultural emphasis. It houses several museums including  Sheikh Zayed National Museum,  Louvre Abu Dhabi  and  Guggenheim Abu Dhabi.
Saadiyat Island
Sheikh Zayed National Museum
Louvre Abu Dhabi
Guggenheim Abu Dhabi.
The new financial district which is located on  Al Maryah Island  and stands out for its modern architecture, combines a commercial area and many shopping outlets and restaurants.
Al Maryah Island
Yas Island  is a venue dedicated to sports and entertainment. It is home to the Formula 1 circuit, Ferrari World theme park and Yas Water World, as well as many hotels and restaurants.
Yas Island


Activities to try in Abu Dhabi
Activities to try in Abu Dhabi
One could cycle, jog, walk or simply watch the world go by along  Abu Dhabi's beautiful corniche  or try one water sports in the mangroves by the city.
Abu Dhabi's beautiful corniche
Enjoy safaris, quad-biking, sand-skiing, paragliding etc. in the desert or spend the evening in a Bedouin camp under the starlit skies, enjoying refreshments and entertainment.
Experience a sunset dinner-cruise on a traditional wooden dhow along Abu Dhabi's extensive coastline.
Enjoy the dunes of the  Empty Quarter desert in Liwa, a two-hour drive from Abu Dhabi. Enjoy tranquillity in  Qasr al Sarab Desert Resort, which has been artfully constructed to resemble a desert fort.
Empty Quarter desert in Liwa
Qasr al Sarab Desert Resort
Take a trip by boat or plane to one of Abu Dhabi's offshore jewels,  Sir Bani Yas Resort, to explore the rugged island, its spectacular beaches, salt dome and dense mangroves.
Sir Bani Yas Resort
Explore Al Ain city, a low-lying green city in an oasis of majestic date palms. Take a tour of its many impressive old forts and archaeological sites.


Children's activities in Abu Dhabi
Children's activities in Abu Dhabi
Following are some fun activities to try for families with children:
The Fun City/Works/Ville

Learn more about Abu Dhabi:
The official tourism portal of Abu Dhabi
Department of Culture and Tourism
Explore our deserts
Culture and heritage
Iconic landmarks
Cultural attractions
Islands
Sea
Water sports
Forts, museums and archaeological sites
Explore sights in:

Explore sights in:
Abu Dhabi city
Al Ain city
Al Dhafra
Dubai
Landmarks in  Dubai include  both  historic  and  modern  structures. Some of which are Dubai Museum,  Hatta Heritage Village,  Burj Khalifa - the tallest tower,  The Dubai Mall - the largest mall and  Palm Jumeirah - the largest man-made island.
historic
Dubai Museum
Hatta Heritage Village
Burj Khalifa
The Dubai Mall
Palm Jumeirah
Complete your Dubai experience with:
Complete your Dubai experience with:
Al Fahidi district
Dubai Museum
abra ride
Activities to try in Dubai
Activities to try in Dubai
One could relax on the long stretch of clean beaches, visit the various parks in the city or enjoy a drive in the desert.
You could also take a 1.5 hour drive to Hatta where you could spend some time by the natural water pools or bash the pools in a 4WD.
Children's activities in Dubai
Children's activities in Dubai
Following are some fun activities to try for families with children
Dubai Aquarium and Underwater Zoo
KidZania
Dubai Ice Rink
Children's City
Dubai Creek Park
Wonderland
Dubai Safari Park
Dubai Safari Park
Refer to  the official tourism portal of Dubai, to find out what other activities you can try in Dubai.
the official tourism portal of Dubai
Find out more about Dubai:
Find out more about Dubai:
Sights and attractions
Experiences
Arts and culture
Local culture and heritage
Top things to do in Dubai
Sharjah
Sharjah stands out for its architectural and cultural wealth. Its  touristic sites  include historical areas like  Heart of Sharjah  and modern sites like  Al Qasba and  Al Majaz waterfront.
Sharjah
touristic sites
Heart of Sharjah
Al Qasba
Al Majaz waterfront
Sharjah's cultural wealth has been aptly recognised regionally and internationally. In 1998, it was named 'The Cultural  Capital of the Arab  World' by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and in 2014, it was named 'The Capital of Islamic Culture for 2014' by Organisation of Islamic Countries. In 2015, it was named 'The Capital of Arab Tourism'.
Sharjah hosts notable art exhibitions such as Sharjah biennial.
Related links:
Related links:
Sharjah University City
Expo Centre Sharjah
Sharjah Art Foundation
Things to enjoy in Sharjah
Things to enjoy in Sharjah
Take a stroll by the Buhaira corniche and stop by the Al Majaz waterfront where you can enjoy the 100-metre high fountain. There are also many art galleries, cafés and other leisure facilities at the waterfront.
Al Majaz waterfront
Discover the Sharjah Arts Area.
Sharjah Arts Area.
Visit Emirates Fine Arts Society.
Visit

Emirates Fine Arts Society.
Emirates Fine Arts Society
Visit  Khorfakkan Amphitheater.
Khorfakkan Amphitheater.
You could visit Al Hisn Fort Museum and continue on to  Sharjah Heritage Museum on the opposite side of Hisn Avenue.
Al Hisn Fort Museum
Sharjah Heritage Museum
Stroll through the fruit and vegetable souks  and pick up some exotic treats. Shop for carpets and antiques at the distinctive central souk (also known as Blue Souk) and indulge in some jewellery shopping at the gold souk.
fruit and vegetable souks
central souk
Take a ride on the  Eye of the Emirates Wheel. This will give you spectacular views of the emirate.
Eye of the Emirates Wheel.

Submerge yourself in the underwater world at  Sharjah Aquarium, home to a variety of marine animals.
Sharjah Aquarium
Go on a voyage of discovery of the Islamic world at  Sharjah's Museum of Islamic Civilization.
Museum of Islamic Civilization.
Learn about the emirate's many fine archaeological sites and ancient past dating back to prehistoric times at  Sharjah's Archaeology Museum.
Sharjah's Archaeology Museum.
Visit Sharjah Desert Park, which is located on the Sharjah–Dhaid Highway going east. The park houses the Natural History Museum, the Children's Farm and the Arabian Wildlife Centre, which has an amazing collection of wildlife from the Arabian Peninsula.
Visit
Sharjah Desert Park
Sharjah Desert Park
, which is located on the Sharjah–Dhaid Highway going east. The park houses the Natural History Museum, the Children's Farm and the Arabian Wildlife Centre, which has an amazing collection of wildlife from the Arabian Peninsula.
Sharjah  has enclaves: Dibba, Khor Fakkan and Kalba on the UAE's east coast.
Visit Kalba which was an important settlement 4,500 years ago. The fort in Kalba, now in ruins, was mentioned by the Venetian traveler Gasparo Balbi in an account of his travels in the region in 1580.
Further south, close to the border with Oman, see  Khor Kalba Nature Reserve, which is home to the  rare white-collared kingfisher, amongst other indigenous wildlife.
Khor Kalba Nature Reserve
Snorkelling and diving are practised off the coast of Khor Fakkan.
Find out more about Sharjah:
The official tourism website of Sharjah
Sharjah Commerce and Tourism Development
Beaches
Sports and adventure
Heritage
Culture
Museums
Landmarks

Nature activities
Ajman
Ajman is blessed with a natural harbour on the Arabian Gulf. It is situated along a central creek with a beautiful 16 kilometre long stretch of white sandy beach. Although fishing and dhow-building are still important aspects of life, it has undergone significant developments, especially in the area named as 'New Ajman' along the Emirates Road.
Some of the  major landmarks in Ajman  are:
Ajman is  famous for its stunning beaches, Masfout mountains, nature reserves and parks, Masfout Castle, Red Fort and the 18th century Ajman Fort which was converted into Ajman Museum. The museum houses an interesting collection of archaeological artefacts, manuscripts, old weapons and reconstructions of traditional life.
Shoppers can find designer brands at the City Centre Mall or could bargain for more traditional ware at the souk.
The stretch of the white sandy beach near the Kempinski Hotel is perfect for a relaxing swim.
Ajman has two rural agricultural enclaves: Masfout to the southeast on the road to Hatta and Manama about 60 kilometres east just off the main road between Al Dhaid and the east coast.
Find out more about tourism in Ajman on its official tourism website.
official tourism website
Umm Al Quwain
Umm Al Quwain is the most ancient emirate in the country. Archeological traces show strong evidences of the emirate's relations with Mesopotamia that existed during the 3rd millennium B.C. The tiny emirate of Umm Al Quwain is about 20 minutes' drive north of Ajman.
Umm Al Quwain has beautiful beaches. Windsurfing, waterskiing and sailing can all be enjoyed at Umm Al Quwain Marine Club on Sheikh Ahmed bin Rashid Al Moalla Rd. The Club also has a popular horse-riding centre.
Umm Al Quwain Fort, which was home to the Ruler of the emirate, guarded the entrance to the old town. Later it became a museum. The emirate boasts of  6 other forts.
Dreamland Aqua Park, a water park and a recreational resort is another landmark in the emirate.
Dreamland Aqua Park,
Umm Al Quwain is distinguished by its several islands:  Al Sinniya, Jazirat Al Ghalla, Al Keabe, Al Sow, Al Qaram, Al Humaidi, Al Chewria and Al Harmala. The most famous is Al Sinniya, which is about 90 sq km from the city and is blessed with several environmental privileges.
Al Sinniya
An air tour from  Umm Al Quwain Aeroclub  will give you a bird's-eye view of these locations.
Umm Al Quwain Aeroclub
Falaj Al Mu'alla, an enclave of Umm Al Quwain, is an attractive natural oasis, about 50 kilometres southeast of Umm Al Quwain City on the road E55 to Al Dhaid. It has a camel racetrack as well.
The emirate is also home to a number of  archaeological sites  such as Tell Abraq (dating from the Bronze Age),  Alokaaab Island  and Ed Dur, a site with significance in the first century AD.
archaeological sites

Find more about Umm Al Quwain through the official tourism website of Umm Al Quwain.
official tourism website of Umm Al Quwain
Ras Al Khaimah
Ras  Al Khaimah has excellent hotels, great  beaches, golf courses and spas. Some of the top hotels include Al Hamra Fort Hotel and Beach Resort (with a golf course within the complex), the  Waldorf Astoria,  Cove Rotana Resort,  Banyan Tree Al Wadi.
Al Hamra Fort Hotel and Beach Resort
Waldorf Astoria
Cove Rotana Resort
Banyan Tree Al Wadi
Ras Al Khaimah's beaches and hotels offer a variety of activities while the desert and mountains are ideal for safaris and nature trails. You can also try falconry, horse riding, camel riding or wadi adventures.
The old town of Ras Al Khaimah has  the National Museum, which used to be residence of the ruling family until the early 1960s. The museum houses a collection of archaeological and ethnological artefacts. A visit to the museum will give you a real sense of time and place, particularly the maritime past of the region, its role in the pearling trade and the Qawasim who had built up a fleet of over 60 large vessels.
National Museum
You can visit the  Pearl Museum  on the shores of the creek and learn about Julfar, which was a major medieval trading centre in the region where merchants from east and west came to purchase the precious pearls that were harvested locally.
Pearl Museum
About 25 kilometres from the city, a new road, which is the UAE's most scenic road, runs up the  Jebel Jais mountain  cluster, which rises to 5,700 feet. The road is popular amongst enthusiastic drivers, sightseers and extreme athletes.
Jebel Jais mountain
About 15 kilometres from the city is  Dhayah Fort,  a strategic military fortification that played a major role in the history of the UAE. The fort overlooks the village of Shimal, also the location of a significant archaeological site.
Dhayah Fort,
Hot springs at Ain Khatt  are very popular with the local population.
Hot springs at Ain Khatt
You can explore the ruins of partially restored abandoned stone houses at  Jazirat al Hamra, on the coast between Al Hamra Fort Hotel and the Cove Rotana.
Jazirat al Hamra
Visit Ras Al Khaimah for Awafi Desert, Bassata Desert Village, the  Marjan island  and  Iceland Waterpark.
Bassata Desert Village
Marjan island
Iceland Waterpark

Find out more about tourism in RAK through the official tourism website of Ras Al Khaimah.
the official tourism website of Ras Al Khaimah
Fujairah
Fujairah's historical importance goes back to 3000 B.C. when the area was inhabited by herders and fishermen. It was then named as the Land of Titans or 'Ard Al Jababerah'. It is unofficially called 'the Jewel of the Middle East'.
Wadi Al Wurayah waterfalls  and Ain Al Madhab Gardens are major touristic attractions in Fujairah. Wadi Wurrayah, a 31,000-acre nature reserve, lies between Khor Fakkan and Bidiyah. The site is the UAE's only waterfall. Other sites include the UAE's oldest mosque Al Bidya Mosque and the Heritage Village.
Wadi
Al Wurayah waterfalls
Al Bidya Mosque
Fujairah has  many beaches and beach-side resorts including the five-star  Le Méridien Al Aqah  and FujairahRotana.
Le Méridien Al Aqah
Fujairah

Rotana.
It does not have a desert; it is mostly mountainous, covered by  Al Hajar Mountains  which separates the emirate from the rest of the country.

Fujairah is cooler than the rest of the UAE. It is popular for water sports like swimming, sailing, jet skiing, fishing.
Along the road to Fujairah from Dubai, vendors and buyers thrive the  Friday market. It is a good place to buy locally produced fruits and vegetables and other ethnic items such as pottery, rugs and even some Chinese goods.
Friday market
Travel south passing the magnificent restored fort at Bithnah, one of the many forts and watchtowers that once protected these routes through the mountains, to the mainly low-lying Fujairah City.
Take time to explore  Al Hayl Palace, which was once the summer residence of the ruling family of Fujairah.
Al Hayl Palace
Fujairah Fort, reputedly 360 years old, stands on a slight incline at the edge of date gardens in Fujairah city. These forts are often identified as Portuguese but many were older in construction.
Fujairah Fort,
Fujairah Heritage Village  has a good selection of traditional houses ('Arish) and fishing boats (Shashah) made from palm fronds, providing an interesting backdrop to its living reconstruction of traditional life in the mountains and on the shores of the east coast.
Fujairah Heritage Village
On weekends in winter, you can witness  bullfights, practised as a recreational sport.
bullfights

Find more about tourism in Fujairah - Fujairah Tourism website
ourism in Fujairah

Related links
Tourism in Fujairah
World's Coolest Winter
Was this information helpful?
Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience.










Thank you for submitting your feedback.