Information and services
Visiting and exploring the UAE
What to do in the UAE?
Dining
The UAE has many restaurants and cafés, some amongst the finest in the world. It organises many food festivals, which bring cuisines from around the world and are popular amongst citizens and residents.
Where to dine?
Different cuisines
Unique experiences
Food festivals
Tipping
Where to dine?
Restaurants and cafés are located in shopping malls either as stand-alone establishments or in food courts. They are also located in hotels, shopping centres, shopping districts and residential areas.
Search for dining options in:
Abu Dhabi
Dubai
Sharjah
Ras Al Khaimah
.
Different cuisines
The UAE has many restaurants and cafés, some amongst the finest in the world. Several international restaurants and cafés have outlets in the UAE. Popular cuisines served in the restaurants are Afghani, African, American, Arabic, British, Chinese, Filipino, French, German, Greek, Indian, Indonesian, Iranian, Italian, Japanese, Malay, Mediterranean, Mexican, Nepali, Pakistani, Sri Lankan, Thai and Vietnamese.
The UAE has many restaurants and cafés, some amongst the finest in the world. Several international restaurants and cafés have outlets in the UAE. Popular cuisines served in the restaurants are Afghani, African, American, Arabic, British, Chinese, Filipino, French, German, Greek, Indian, Indonesian, Iranian, Italian, Japanese, Malay, Mediterranean, Mexican, Nepali, Pakistani, Sri Lankan, Thai and Vietnamese.



Traditional Emirati fare includes Khuzi (stuffed whole roast lamb or goat on a bed of spiced rice), Machboos (casserole of lamb or chicken layered with rice seasoned with spices and some saffron) or Al Madrooba (a mix of salted fish, spices and thick sauce).

Unique experiences
Eat with an Emirati
Eat with an Emirati
Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Centre for Cultural Understanding offer  cultural meals; you can enjoy Emirati food while chatting with an Emirati and learning about the UAE's history and culture.
cultural meals
The UAE offers several unique eating-out experiences such as dining beside a floor-to-ceiling aquarium, munching in cafés while you pet some purring cats, indulging in chocolate cafés and splurging on the occasionally created edibles with real gold!
Some local cafés (Mama Tani, Majilis, Café2go) serve camel burgers as a healthy alternative to beef. Camel milk is used to make cheese, ice cream and delicious chocolate.
Food festivals
The UAE organises many food festivals, which bring cuisines from around the world and are popular amongst citizens and residents. Popular food festivals in the UAE are:
Taste Abu Dhabi
Dubai Food Festival
Al Qasba Food Festival
Gulf Food
Tipping
Tipping is a common practice in the UAE though it is not mandatory. Read about guide to tipping in the UAE.
guide to tipping in the UAE

Useful links:
Useful links:
Food control
Food watch system
Food Inspection Section
Was this information helpful?
Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience.










Thank you for submitting your feedback.