Information and services
Visiting and exploring the UAE
Where to stay in the UAE?
You can choose from modest accommodations to opulent hotels. Stay by the sea or in the city, or relax in a resort in the deep desert. Check the facilities and book online.
You can choose from modest accommodations to opulent hotels. Stay by the sea or in the city, or relax in a resort in the deep desert. Check the facilities and book online.
Book a room
Unmatched luxury
Taxes at tourist facilities
Book a room
Search and book a hotel, hotel apartment or resort in:
Abu Dhabi
Dubai
Sharjah
Ajman
Umm Al Quwain
Umm Al Quwain
accommodation
Fujairah
You can also book a hotel through agencies affiliated to the UAE's airlines or airports:
Etihad Holidays
Emirates Holidays
Dnata Travel
FlyDubai Holidays
Sharjah Airport Travel Agency
Air Arabia.
Unmatched luxury
The UAE is famous for high-end hotels offering unmatched luxury. Those wishing to experience opulence could stay at  Emirates Palace  (Abu Dhabi) or  Burj al Arab  (Dubai). There are also budget accommodations such as guesthouses and youth hostels.
Emirates Palace
Burj al Arab
Hotels located in city centre offer easy access to public transport, exhibition and convention centres, shopping centres, malls and nightlife venues proving to be convenient for those visiting the UAE specifically for these purposes.
Those looking for a quiet spot and relaxed experience can check into hotels and resorts located by the sea, which offer panoramic views. For other exotic experiences, you could try desert resorts such as  Bab Al Shams  (in Dubai),  Qasr Al Sarab  (in Abu Dhabi), spa resorts or theme resorts such as  Atlantis, The Palm  and  Lapita  in Dubai.
Bab Al Shams
Qasr Al Sarab
Atlantis, The Palm
Hotel facilities in the UAE include concierge, business centres, fitness and recreation centres, spas, salons, shopping centres, restaurants, airport transfers, Wi-Fi etc.
Taxes at tourist facilities
Restaurants, hotels, hotel apartments, resorts etc. in the UAE might charge one or more of the following taxes:

In Dubai, hotels charge 'Tourism Dirham Fee' per room per night of occupancy (for a maximum of 30 consecutive nights) ranging from AED 7 to 20 depending on the category/grade of the hotel.
In Ras Al Khaimah, hotels charge AED 15 tourism fee per room per night.

Read about taxes service charges and tipping in Abu Dhabi.
taxes service charges and tipping


Laws and regulations:
Laws and regulations:
Circular no. 9/2023; amendments to government fees applied to hotel establishements in Abu Dhabi
D
D
TCM Tourism Dirham Administrative Resolution No 2 of 2020 Prescribing the Rules for Calculating, Collecting, and Paying the Tourism Dirham Fee in the Emirate of Dubai
Was this information helpful?
Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience.










Thank you for submitting your feedback.
Next topic
What to do in the UAE?

Next topic
What to do in the UAE?
Prev topic
How to get to the UAE?

Prev topic
How to get to the UAE?
View all services

View all services